## v2.4.x

Important changes for users

* New option `-?` to print the detected package manager

* The main program is now written in `Dlang`. The `pacapt` script
  is not legacy. If you still need them, please check out the
  latest script on the `ng` branch and/or from the releases `2.3.x`.

* `passthrough` mode: If non of capital options (`QRSU`) is provided,
  the `passthrough` mode is enabled. This mode is also enabled if
  the current package manager is `pacman`.

  When `passthrough` mode is on, all users arguments are provided
  to the back end package manager.

* To use non-system package manager (e.g, `npm`, `gem`, `tlmgr`, )
  please create a symlink to the main program, for example,
  `pacapt-npm`, `pacapt-gem`, `pacapt-tlmgr`, ...

Other changes:

* `lib/tlmgr`: Add TeXLive support (Antony Lee)
* `lib/gem`: Add Rubygems support (Ky-Anh Huynh)

For developers:

* `Makefile`: When `VERSION` is not specified, the development script
  (`pacapt.dev`) is generated. Otherwise, a stable script is made.

* `dmain/`: The main development is now written in `DLang`.
  Please try `make dtest` and `make dbuild` for details. The stable
  core/main Bash script will be now legacy and they will generate warning
  when being used. (Users should use the stable script on `ng` branch.)

* Reduce shellcheck warning/error reports

* We don't use tricky environment variables `$_POPT`, `$_SOPT`,
  `$_TOPT` and `$_EOPT`. All libraries from `lib/*.sh` need to be rewritten
  without them. Most user's options are glued to create final method.

* If you want to custom the command used by `passthrough` mode, please
  set up new environment `_<LIB_NAME>_PASSTHROUGH` to that command.
  This should be done in the `_init` method.
  See the definition of `_macports_init` in `lib/macports.sh` as an example.

* Support non-system package manager (`npm`, `gem`, ...)

* If the program name has the form `foo-bar`, then `pacapt` skips all
  detection and understands that `bar` is a package manager. This is
  useful for using `pacapt` as a wrapper for `npm`, `gem`, `pip`, ...

## v2.3.15

* A warm up release with very minor updates.

## v2.3.14

* `lib/homebrew`: `brew upgrade` is equivalant to `brew upgrade --all`.
  See #90 and #101.
* Support `Clear Linux`. See #94.

For developers:

* Add Travis support
* Add and update test cases for Ubuntu 16.04, Ubuntu 14.04

## v2.3.13

* `lib/dpkg`: Fix `-Qs` for old `dpkg`.

For developers:

* Test scripts can now be automated thanks to `tests/*`;
* `tests/slitz40`: Add;
* `tests/dpkg`: Update.

## v2.3.12

* `lib/dpkg`: Fix #84 (incorrect implementation of `-Qs`.)

For developers:

* `bin/gen_tests.rb`: Add;
* `lib/dpkg`: Add and update test cases;
* `CONTRIBUTING`: Add new section `Writting test cases`.

## v2.3.11

* `lib/tazpkg`: Improve `-U`.

## v2.3.10

* `lib/tazpkg`: Support `-Scc`.

## v2.3.9

* `lib/tazpkg`: Support `SliTaz` distribution.

For developers:

* `contrib/*`: Add instructions to build packages on some distributions (Credit: `Pival81`).

## v2.3.8

* `lib/alpine`: Support `Alpine` distirubtion (Credit: `Carl X. Su`, `Cuong Manh Le`);
* `lib/dnf`: Support new package manager on `Fedora` system (Credit: `Huy Ngô`);
* `lib/termux`: Support `termux` on Android (Credit: `Jiawei Zhou`);
* `lib/zypper`: New option `-Sw` (Forgot to merge #72);
* `lib/yum`: New option `-Qs` (Credit: `Siôn Le Roux`);

For developers:

* Improve translation method `_translate_all`;

## v2.2.7

* `lib/zypper`: Complete query/removal options (Credit: `Janne Heß`);
* `lib/cave`: Fix an issue with `-R` option;
* New option `--noconfirm` to help non-interactive scripts (Cf. #43).
  Currently available for `pkgng`, `yum`, `dpkg` and `zypper`.

For developers:

* `lib/{00_core,zz_main}`: Refactor to support future option translation;
* Refactor code supports `-w` (download only) and `-v` (debug) options;
* Improve coding quality thanks to `shellcheck`;
* Move `compile.sh` to `bin/compile.sh`;
* Use `lib/00_core#_translate_all` to add future option translation;
* `bin/check`: Add script to inspect coding style issues (Cf. #54).

## v2.1.6

* `lib/sun_tools`: `SunOS` support (Credit: `Daniel YC Lin`);
* Fix a minor bug related to argument parsing (4287ff16e869a0960ea54233);
* Improve documentation;
* `lib/dnf`: Add some initial support;
* Adding `GREP` and `AWK` environments to future non-`Linux` systems;
* `compile.sh` will exit if it can't detect version information;
* `README` has a table of supported operations generated by `compile.sh`;
* In debug mode, `pacapt` will print body of function it would execute.

## v2.0.5

* `lib/zz_main`: Improve secondary option parsing;
* `lib/pkg_tools`: Remove `Rns` support.

## v2.0.4

* `openbsd/pkg_tools`: Add (Credit: `Somasis`);
* `homebrew/Su*`: Use `--all` flag when upgrading;
* `homebrew/*`: Some typo fixes;
* `compile.sh`: `git` becomes optional (useful for `docker` tester.);
* `compile.sh`: Get list of authors from `README.md`;
* `Makefile`: Various improvements;
* `lib/00_core`: Add `_removing_is_dangerous` method;
* `lib/00_core`: `_not_implemented` now returns `1`;
* `lib/help.txt`: Remove list of authors from help message;
* `CHANGELOG.md`: Add.

## v2.0.3

* `homebrew/Qs`: Add;
* `homebrew/*`: Fix minor bugs.

## v2.0.2

* `lib/zz_main`: Fix quoting issue (Credit: `Cuong Manh Le`).

## v2.0.1

* `git log v2.0.1`.
